# CDSC WG2 (Power Data) Meeting 2022-11-29

Sync meeting for the whole working group.

## Agenda

* Update round - where are we?
* Notification for th e CDSC Community Meeting on 2022-12-14
* Sync on CLA
* Sync on the POC app

## Attendees

* Christopher Dall (Microsoft)
* Henry Richardson (WattTime)
* Ian Falcon (Apple)
* Kristina Stanford (Apple)
* Noah Miller (Advanced Infrastructure)
* Pierre Segonne (Electricity Maps) (Maintainer)
* Robert Redlinger (Apple)
* Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon)
* Uved Khan (Apple)

## Minutes

* Round of introduction as we were welcoming 4 new members (see above) from Apple.
  * Restated the purpose and scope of the working group. Explanation for what has been done, what is ongoing and what is to do for the working group.

* Reminder that the CDSC Community Meeting is on 2022-12-14. Please reach out if you don't have your invitation.

* Discussion around the CLA
  * The automatic CLA signing is still not ready, but should be soon.
  * In the meanwhile, individual contributors can reach out to John Mertic. Contact Pierre for the email address.

* Status of Workstream 3. We are still working on the POC app which implements the specification and generates the documentation automatically.
  * Work is happening in this [repository](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data-API-Demonstrator).
  * Supporting documentation is drafted in this [gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ij-z2MCSm9BRI4Mu-2FS3y_QzFzg_Q_c1BFGJRo8hc0/edit).

* Introduction of the use-cases on the website.
  * Pierre spent some time drafting some use-cases that justify the need for our work.
  * An issue will be opened to discuss the use-cases and to get feedback from the community.
  * Ideally we'd like to close that by beginning of the next year.

* Discussion around the scope of the specification.
  * Should it include carbon rates or carbon emissions? __No, it should not.__ We want the specification to allow for the calculation of carbon rates and emissions, but we don't want to include them in the specification. Furthermore, we want to introduce as little complexity for the system operators.
  * Should it include recommendations for computing consumption mixes? Not in the specification. But the working group gathers some of the most knowledgeable people in the field, so we can use the momentum created in the working group to also discuss methodologies and potentially come up with recommendations later on. Interested members are also more than welcome to meet on the side of the biweekly syncs to exchange around that. @Stephen let us know if it's something that you think would be valuable.

## Action items

* You're encouraged to attend the CDSC Community Meeting on 2022-12-14. Please reach out if you don't have your invitation.

* We are always looking to engage with new power system operators. Please reach out to your network if it includes any power system operators that would be interested in participating in the CDSC. [PJM](https://www.pjm.com/) (US) and [National Grid](https://www.nationalgrid.com/) (UK) could be targeted.

* We welcome new members to help on the delivery of the workstream 3. Please reach out to the maintainers if you are interested in helping.

* We would like to publish use cases enabled by our work. An [issue](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data/issues/49) was created on our GitHub, which will be resolved by this [pull request](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data/pull/48).


__NOTE__: Pierre will not be available after the CDSC Community Meeting on 2022-12-14. He will be on vacation until 2022-01-03. He will be available again on 2022-01-04.