# CDSC WG2 (Power Data) Meetings 2023-02-07

Sync meeting for the whole working group.

## Agenda

* Upcoming LF Energy summit (June 2nd in Paris)
* Review proposal for new use case (Kristina)
* Review [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AMnzzMC5ChqH-jkeTVI8AbOJkkIvGZt0PI7G6BVG_o4/edit#)  + follow up on questions raised as to query parameters vs endpoints and the hierarchy of the API.
* Next steps for demonstrator

## Attendees

* Noah Miller (Advanced Infrastructure)
* Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon)
* Henry Richardson (WattTime)
* Robert Redlinger (Apple)
* Kristina Stanford (Apple)
* Hallie Cramer (Google)
* Andre Bernal Garcia
* Leon-Gerard Vandenberg (Sunified Group)
* Benjamin Gerber (M-RETS)
* Pierre Segonne (Electricity Maps) (Maintainer)

## Minutes

* LF Energy summit
  * Pierre has submitted an application for a talk. The summit is on June 2nd in Paris. The talk aims at presenting what the working group is doing and what has been accomplished so far.
  * How to update the application to add Stephen as a co-speaker? Hallie will find contact that knows how to do this.
  * Format of the talk - Pierre originally applied for a lightning talk, but we can change this to a longer talk. Will communicate this to the contact Hallie will provide.

* Introduction for Leon
  * Leon is a new member of the working group. He works for Sunified which empowers utility scale solar power.

* Introduction of new use case
  * Kristina had an idea for adding a use case to the working group. The use case is about using the power system data for renewable project siting. Her original proposition is:

> Use Case 3: Renewable Project Siting
> Decarbonization can be accelerated by siting clean energy projects in electricity grids with higher emissions.
> Needs
> To make impactful clean energy siting decisions and to measure the carbon impact of existing clean energy projects, access to accurate and detailed long-run grid emissions and generation data is required.
> Example Users
> ·      Organizations forecasting grid emissions to help others optimize their renewable investments
> ·      Organizations with climate goals that can target their clean energy investments to grids with higher emissions

  * The idea of this use case was approved. Kristina will submit a PR where the wording will be discussed and approved.

* Discussions around the demonstrator
  * Originally arised as it was pointed out previously that the current demonstrator is not easy to understand for members of the working group that are not actively involved in its conception. This means that it's hard to submit comments and raise questions.
  * An idea was to use a [Google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AMnzzMC5ChqH-jkeTVI8AbOJkkIvGZt0PI7G6BVG_o4/edit#) in parallel where the current routing and design decisions are documented. This would allow people to comment and ask questions.
  * This raises the question of the workflow for the demonstrator. We will attempt to have a workflow dedicated to the conception of the demonstrator. After each session, and before the working group sync, the google doc will be updated to reflect the latest changes and members will be notified to review the changes and raise questions.
  * The demonstrator is seen as a an interative tool that facilitates the understanding of the complex data model and the routing decisions. It is not seen as a final product.
  * The demonstrator will be changed to python to allow a faster iteration rate and more members to contribute to the development.


## Actions items

* Hallie reach out through CEBA to power system operators.
* Pierre setup working session for demonstrator.
* Pierre will document the envisioned workflow for the demonstrator in the GitHub.
* Ben and others are more than encouraged to reach out again to power system operators for feedback on the original specifications.
