## Attendees

-   Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon) (Maintainer)
-   Henry Richardson (WattTime)
-   André Bernal Garcia (External Collaborator)
-   Pierre Vogler-Finck (PierreVF Consulting)

## Agenda
- Takeaways from previous meeting with Jory about how to clean up the spec
- PR Review of changes to capacity endpoint

## Notes
Spec Language Discussion
- Discussed the difference between normative and transitive references, where non-normative references (such as the table including US and EU examples) should go in the appendix rather than the core document. 
- The spec should have the fewest words possible, every word should have a purpose.
- AIB for now should be cited from the appendix.
- SHOULD vs MUST should be in the core document

PR Dicussion

- We can capture historical changes in capacity by having a request object that includes a datetime, and the response object to include a "last_updated" field. The endpoint therefore defaults to the current capacity, but allows for someone to trace back historical capacity values by fuel source.
    
## Action Items

- Stephen will do a first pass on the standards and then the rest can fine tune.
- André will update the demonstrator and create an issue of what is missing and what to do.
- Steve will create an issue will be created to make sure we include a discussion on significant figures.
- Steve and André will work together to build a more comprehensive example database
- Pierre will add issues regarding historical capacity and available capacity endpoints
