# CDSC WG2 (Power Data) Meetings 2023-01-10

Sync meeting for the API spec demonstrator

## Agenda

* Review the proposal for introducing the topology specification into the demonstrator

## Attendees

* Erich Barnstedt (Microsoft)
* Noah Miller (Advanced Infrastructure)
* Pierre Segonne (Electricity Maps) (Maintainer)
* Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon)

## Minutes

* Started off by explaining the motivation for the change. The idea is that customers of that data will want to request grid data for a certain granularity of the grid. Ex: A customer might want production data from production units and from the whole grid. As the underlying data has a similar structure for all levels of the grid, we reorganise the logic around the idea of `gridNode` which can be e.g. a balancing area or e.g. a production unit. The definition of types of grid nodes should follow the [topology specification](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data/blob/draft-0.0.1/topology.md).
* Discussion around how to specify the IDs of the nodes. Agreed that we should encourage those implementing the spec to respect human readable formats https://www.w3.org/XML/2007/04/hrri/draft-walsh-tobin-hrri-01c.html https://github.com/Azure/opendigitaltwins-dtdl/blob/master/DTDL/v2/dtdlv2.md#internationalized-resource-identifier
* Addition of all contributors to the repo and merging the first PR
* Discussion around next steps

## Actions items

* Reflect on how to organise the routes? Should the logic be to start by specifying the gridNode, e.g. `gridNode/US-CAL-CISO/generation` or by specifying the type of data, e.g. `generation/US-CAL-CISO`? We will decide in our next sync
* Set a date for next sync (Pierre)
* Try integrating the ENTSO-E/EIA real data into the demonstrator (Stephen). The collected data has been gathered here: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1K2k6ZJTwr8nTxH7VE4IAAY_o_mJKra2G
* Add ELEXON data to the collected data (Noah)

___

Sync meeting for the whole working group.

## Agenda

* Update on the upcoming deliveries
* Update on use cases on the website
* Sync on the POC app

## Attendees

* Greg Sztupkay (Apple)
* Henry Richardson (WattTime)
* Jordan Hughes (Apple)
* Kristina Stanford (Apple)
* Noah Miller (Advanced Infrastructure)
* Pierre Segonne (Electricity Maps) (Maintainer)
* Robert Redlinger (Apple)
* Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon)

## Minutes

* Upcoming milestones:
  * Demonstration of the API specification with real data is expected in the end of February
  * Further milestones are not 100% clear, upcoming steering committee should clarify this
* Use cases on the website
  * We want to display use cases for the specification on the website to increase engagement and transparency
  * A first proposal was submitted in December and still awaits a review. The PR is found [here](https://github.com/carbon-data-specification/Power-Systems-Data/pull/48)
* Work on the API has resumed. See above for meetings notes.

## Action items

* Update working group on further deliverables / milestones (Pierre)
* Review the use cases on the website (Henry)
