Attendees
-------------
- Henry Richardson (WattTime)
- Kristina Stanford (Apple)
- Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon) (Maintainer)
- Noah Miller (Advanced Infrastructure)

Agenda
---------
* LF Energy 2023 Summit Reactions
  * Sharing the Slides [Link]
  * Small number of people working on the totality of the problem is both impressive and scary
  * Need to get the people that we want to use these specs to become part of the conversation
    * Why aren't more utilities involved?
       * Possibly early on in the standard, also they provide fuel mix data based on their own standards
       * Carbon data spec standards are newer though
       * Some utilities were at the conference (RTE, (Danish operator)
* CIM alignment:
  * [Documentation Explaining PowerSystemResource and related terms](https://zepben.github.io/evolve/docs/cim/evolve/IEC61970/Base/Core/PowerSystemResource/)
  * [Fuel Type/Generation Technology (EECS Rules Fact Sheet 5)](https://www.aib-net.org/sites/default/files/assets/eecs/facts-sheets/AIB-2019-EECSFS-05%20EECS%20Rules%20Fact%20Sheet%2005%20-%20Types%20of%20Energy%20Inputs%20and%20Technologies%20-%20Release%207.7%20v5.pdf)
  * [Additional Topology in ENTSO-E CGMES library](https://www.entsoe.eu/data/cim/cim-for-grid-models-exchange/)  --> Coordinate Security Analysis section
* Call for volunteers to write spec overviews
* Coordination with WG1
* Feedback on API
	* What are some use case examples we can attempt to do?
		* BA-level fuel mix data to calculate carbon intensity
		* data from an individual solar farm to measure hourly RECs


Notes
--------
* How do we combine the fuel mixes and technologies in order to be able to calculate efficiencies correctly?
  * We will need to either combine these two tables or write our own.
  * Look into whether we need to have a hierarchical or flat structure between Fuel Mixes and Technologies. It would be 
* We don't talk about capacity/transmission constraints. Are Graph Edges (Transmission) specified in the endpoints?
  * Not yet. 
* Should we explain parent/child/sibiling relatinships in CDSC-WG2-01?
	* Henry (possible text for CDSC-WG2-01): For each grid level, you MUST report parent/child/sibling relationships between PowerSystemResources.

TODOs
----------
* look into AIB, EPA, and other standards in terms of how to organize fuel mix vs technology data (Henry)
* Help with the website writing/spec writing in a few working calls (Noah, Kristina)
* Email the transmission expert from the LF Energy Conference (Steve)
* How should these specs be organized? Should the definitional specs be part of the endpoint spec? Ask John Mertic (Steve)
