## Attendees

-   Stephen Suffian (WattCarbon) (Maintainer)
-   Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
-   André Bernal Garcia (External Collaborator)

## Agenda
- Discussion around formalizing the spec

## Notes
- [Document to help with language](https://jtc1info.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/SD-9-Guide-to-the-Transposition-of-PAS-2021.pdf)

Steve pointed out the necessity of understanding the standards' template. The key point is to use the format that the end user is going to utilize.  There is a tool [Metanorma](https://www.metanorma.org/)
 is a package for helping to build specs in an ISO-compatible version. 

The spec itself is meant to describe as plainly and matter-of-factly what this thing does.
Question to ask about each sentence: Is this sentence telling someone to do something, for clarification, a note.

- Normative - this is required
- Non-normative - this is optional, this is where you could extend the spec
- Notes - things to bear in mind

Steve mentioned the case of topology, having examples for the European and American level and Jory answered that would be a note. Appendices are sometimes for longer notes, expressions, etc. 

Steve pointed out is important to understand the organization in appendices. International applications: What a person MUST do step by step.  As a practice, what are normative and potentially clarifying points? Examples can be in the body but pointed out clearly. 

There are existing definitions for Fuels and Dictionary, but we decided to use one of them (AIB code) is not an ISO standard, Steve asked how to handle this AIB document. Normatively referencing something, when you have other specs that the user must comply with is a normative reference. But she says in this case it will be a transitive reference, like a citation basically. 

Recommendation: The risk is industry enforcement is that this definition holds over time, the recommendation is to also ask AIB how to use their standards.

Sections:

- Foreword: material: license, intro, etc
- Glossary/definitions/terms
- Actual meat of it
- Appendices for longer notes, sample

- ISO: what must a person to do to comply and nothing more
- AIB is a transitive reference. For the purposes of this spec we wrote the definitions. We think it should be shared, and AIB is what we're using.

    
## Action Items
   - Stephen: Update the spec to distinguish between normative and non-normative text.


